{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Phoxocephalidae Sars, 1891 \fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{} free, not coalesced with peraeonite 1; exposed; longer than deep; anteroventral margin weakly recessed or moderately recessed or strongly recessed or straight or concave or oblique, anteroventral margin deeply excavate or shallowly excavate, anteroventral corner hooked; rostrum present or absent (check), short or moderate or long; eyes present, well developed or obsolescent, or absent; coalesced, or not coalesced; 1 pair; not bulging. Body laterally compressed; cuticle smooth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Antenna 1\i0{} shorter than antenna 2, or subequal to antenna 2, or longer than antenna 2; peduncle with many robust and slender setae, or with sparse robust and slender setae; 3-articulate; peduncular article 1 shorter than article 2, or subequal to article 2, or longer than article 2; antenna 1 article 2 longer than article 3; peduncular articles 1\endash{}2 not geniculate; accessory flagellum present; callynophore present, or absent. \i{}Antenna 2\i0{} present; short, or medium length, or long, or greater than body length; articles not folded in zigzag fashion; article 1 with hook-like (ensiform) process, or without hook-like process; flagellum shorter than peduncle, or as long as peduncle, or longer than peduncle; less than 5-articulate, or 5 or more articulate; not clavate; \i{}calceoli\i0{} present, or absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Mouthparts\i0{} well developed. \i{}Mandible\i0{} incisor dentate, or smooth, or minutely serrate; lacinia mobilis present on both sides; accessory setal row without distal tuft; molar present, medium, triturative or non-triturative; palp present. \i{}Maxilla 1\i0{} present; inner plate present, weakly setose apically or without setae; palp present, not clavate, 1 -articulate or 2 -articulate. \i{}Maxilla 2\i0{} inner plate present; outer plate present. \i{}Maxilliped\i0{} inner and outer plates well developed or reduced, palps present, well developed or reduced; inner plates well developed or reduced, separate; outer plates present, small or vestigial; palp 4-articulate, article 3 without rugosities. \i{}Labium\i0{} smooth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Peraeon\b0{}. Peraeonites 1\endash{}7 separate; complete; sternal gills absent; pleurae absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Coxae 1\endash{}7\i0{} well developed, none fused with peraeonites. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}4\i0{} longer than broad, overlapping, coxae not acuminate. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}3\i0{} not successively smaller, none vestigial. \i{}Coxae 2\endash{}4\i0{} coxa 4 immensely broadened, or none immensely broadened.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Gnathopod 1\i0{} not sexually dimorphic; smaller (or weaker) than gnathopod 2, or subequal to gnathopod 2; subequal to coxa 2, or larger than coxa 2; gnathopod 1 merus and carpus not rotated; carpus/propodus cantilevered on narrow hinge, or carpus/propodus not cantilevered; carpus shorter than propodus, or subequal to propodus, or longer than propodus; not produced along posterior margin of propodus; dactylus large. \i{}Gnathopod 2\i0{} not sexually dimorphic; subchelate, or parachelate, or chelate; coxa smaller than but not hidden by coxa 3, or subequal to but not hidden by coxa 3; ischium short, or elongate; merus not fused along posterior margin of carpus or produced away from it; carpus/propodus cantilevered on narrow hinge or carpus/propodus not cantilevered, carpus short or elongate, shorter than propodus or subequal to propodus or longer than propodus, not produced along posterior margin of propodus.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Peraeopods\i0{} heteropodous (3\endash{}4 directed posteriorly, 5\endash{}7 directed anteriorly), none prehensile; 3\endash{}4 not glandular; 3\endash{}7 without hooded dactyli, 3\endash{}7 propodi without distal spurs. \i{}Peraeopod 3\i0{} well developed; coxa well developed, longer than broad; carpus shorter than propodus, not produced; dactylus well developed, or small or poorly developed. \i{}Peraeopod 4\i0{} well developed; coxa larger than coxa 3, not acuminate, with well developed posteroventral lobe; carpus not produced. \i{}Peraeopods 5\endash{}7\i0{} with many rows of facial and marginal robust setae, or with many marginal slender setae and few or no robust setae, or with few robust or slender setae; dactyli without slender or robust setae. \i{}Peraeopod 5\i0{} well developed; shorter than peraeopod 6; coxa smaller than coxa 4, with ventrally produced posterior lobe or with posterodorsal lobe; basis expanded or linear, subrectangular or subtriangular, with posteroventral lobe or without posteroventral lobe; merus/carpus free; carpus expanded, or weakly expanded, or linear; setae absent. \i{}Peraeopod 6\i0{} longer than peraeopod 7; merus/carpus free; dactylus without setae. \b\i{}\i{}Peraeopod 7\i0{}\i0\b0{} with 6\endash{}7 well developed articles; shorter than peraeopod 5, or subequal to peraeopod 5; \b\i{}different in structure to peraeopod 6\i0\b0{}; with 7 articles; basis expanded, with long dense slender setae or without dense slender setae; dactylus without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Pleon\b0{}. Pleonites 1\endash{}3 without transverse dorsal serrations, without dorsal carina; without slender or robust dorsal setae. \i{}Epimera 1\endash{}3\i0{} present. \i{}Epimeron 1\i0{} well developed. \i{}Epimeron 2\i0{} setose, or without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b\i{}\i{}Uros\i0\b0{}ome\i0{} not dorsoventrally flattened; \b\i{}urosomites\i0\b0{} \b\i{}1 to 3 free\i0\b0{}; urosomite 1 subequal to urosomite 2, or longer than urosomite 2, or much longer than urosomite 2; urosome urosomite 1 carinate, or urosomites not carinate, or urosomite 3 carinate; urosomites 1\endash{}2 without transverse dorsal serrations. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}2\i0{} apices of rami with robust setae, or without robust setae. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}3\i0{} similar in structure and size. \i{}Uropod 1\i0{} peduncle without long plumose setae, without basofacial robust seta, with ventromedial spur or without ventromedial spur. \i{}Uropod 2\i0{} well developed; without ventromedial spur, without dorsal flange; inner ramus subequal to outer ramus. \i{}Uropod 3\i0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; peduncle short; outer ramus shorter than peduncle or subequal to peduncle or longer than peduncle, 1-articulate or 2-articulate, without recurved spines. \b\i{}\i{}Telson\i0{}\i0\b0{} \b\i{}laminar\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}deeply cleft\i0\b0{}; longer than broad, or as long as broad, or broader than long; apical robust setae present, or absent.
}
