{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Amphipoda (Peracarida, Malacostraca)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Common name\b0{}. Beachhoppers, Landhoppers, Scuds, Sea Fleas, Skeleton Shrimps.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{}, rostrum present or absent; eyes sessile or stalked or absent, paired and lateral or contiguous or fused dorsally; compound, visual elements present, or visual elements absent; ocular scale absent; naupliar eyes absent. \b\i{}Antennules (antenna 1)\i0\b0{} biramous, or uniramous; \b\i{}peduncle and flagellum distinct\i0\b0{}; endopod well developed, or endopod reduced, vestigial or absent; exopod well developed, whip-like; \b\i{}statocyst absent\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Antennae (antenna 2)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}uniramous, or reduced, vestigial or absent\i0\b0{}; exopod multiarticulate. Mouthparts not highly modified, or modified to form suctorial cone, or atrophied. Mandible uniramous; palp present, or absent. Maxillipeds, 1 pair; uniramous. \b{}Thorax\b0{}. \b\i{}Carapace\i0\b0{} \b\i{}absent\i0\b0{}. Thorax and abdomen differentiated. \b\i{}Peraeopods (legs)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}7 pairs, or 5 pairs\i0\b0{}; uniramous; non-phyllopodous; \b\i{}differentiated (some prehensile)\i0\b0{}; some coxae forming lateral plates. Peraeopod 1 (leg 1) simple, or chelate, or subchelate. Peraeopod 2 (leg 2) simple, or chelate, or subchelate. Peraeopod 3 (leg 3) simple or subchelate. \b{}Abdomen\b0{} present, well developed or present, vestigial, with 6 somites or with 5 somites or with 4 somites. Epimera present. Pleopods present, 3 pairs; well developed, narrow and rounded. \b\i{}Uropods\i0\b0{} well developed or vestigial or absent, \b\i{}2 to 3 pairs\i0\b0{}, positioned ventrolaterally; rami present or rami absent; subrectangular to subquadrate, or lanceolate; exopod with diaresis, partial or complete or exopod without diaresis (uropod 3); endopod without statocyst. \b\i{}Telson\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present (not fused to pleon), or absent\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Larval development\b0{}. Epimorphic. Embryos carried in ventral thoracic brood pouch.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat\b0{}. Benthic and planktonic, marine, freshwater and terrestrial; free-living and commensals, one group is parasitic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Distribution\b0{}. Worldwide.
}
