{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Caridea (Decapoda, Eucarida, Malacostraca)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Common name\b0{}. Shrimps (Coral Shrimps, Snapping Shrimps).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{}, rostrum present or absent; head, rostrum articulated, or fused to head; orbital spines (frontal horns) present or absent, eyes stalked or absent, paired and lateral or single and anterior; compound, visual elements present; ocular scale absent; naupliar eyes present, or naupliar eyes absent. \b\i{}Antennules (antenna 1)\i0\b0{} triramous, or biramous; peduncle and flagellum distinct; endopod well developed; exopod well developed, whip-like; \b\i{}statocyst present\i0\b0{}. Antennae (antenna 2) biramous; exopod forming a scaphocerite. Mandible uniramous; palp present, or absent. Maxillipeds, 3 pairs; biramous, or uniramous. \b{}Thorax\b0{}. \b\i{}Carapace\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present\i0\b0{}, univalved, enclosing head and thorax, laterally compressed or subcylindrical to cylindrical or dorsoventrally flattened, smooth or with spines. Sternum undivided (check). Thorax and abdomen differentiated. Peraeopods (legs) 5 pairs, or 4 pairs (Paracrangon has 4 pairs of peraeopods); biramous, or uniramous; non-phyllopodous; differentiated (some prehensile). Peraeopod 1 (leg 1) simple, or chelate, or subchelate. Peraeopod 2 (leg 2) chelate. Peraeopod 3 (leg 3) simple. Peraeopod 5 (leg 5) well developed. \b{}Abdomen\b0{} with 6 somites. Epimera present, second epimeron overlapping first and third epimera. Pleopods present, 5 pairs; none modified into reproductive organ in males, or pleopod 1 forming a gonopod (eg. petasma) in males, or pleopod 2 forming a gonopod (eg. appendix masculina) in males. Uropods well developed, 1 pair, positioned ventrolaterally; rami present, exopod with diaresis, partial or complete or exopod without diaresis; endopod without statocyst. Telson present (not fused to pleon).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Larval development\b0{}. Epimorphic, or metamorphic. Embryos attached to pleopods.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat\b0{}. Marine, brackish, freshwater or semiterrestrial; benthic or pelagic; free-living or commensal.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Distribution\b0{}. Worldwide.
}
