{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Cyclopoida (Copepoda, Maxillipoda)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{}, rostrum present or absent; eyes absent; naupliar eyes present, or naupliar eyes absent. Antennules (antenna 1) uniramous; geniculate in males; peduncle and flagellum indistinguishable; exopod well developed, whip-like, with 9\endash{}23 articles. \b\i{}Antennae (antenna 2)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}uniramous\i0\b0{}; exopod vestigial or absent; endopod with 3 articles. Mandible biramous, or uniramous; palp present, or absent. Maxillipeds, 2 pairs, or 1 pair; uniramous. \b{}Thorax\b0{}. \b\i{}Carapace\i0\b0{} \b\i{}absent\i0\b0{}. Thorax and abdomen differentiated or undifferentiated, boundary between last thoracic somite and first abdominal somite or boundary between fourth and fifth pedigerous somites (podoplean tagmosis). \b\i{}Peraeopods (legs)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}5 pairs\i0\b0{}; biramous, or uniramous (fifth leg uniramous); non-phyllopodous; \b\i{}undifferentiated (simple)\i0\b0{}; each article joined by intercoxal sclerite; anterior peraeopods (swimming legs) with 1 robust seta on outer margin of exopod article 1. \b{}Abdomen\b0{} with 5 somites (or fewer). Epimera absent. Pleopods absent. Uropods well developed or vestigial or absent, 1 pair, positioned terminally or subterminally; rami absent; subrectangular to subquadrate. Telson absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Larval development\b0{}. Metamorphic. Embryos carried in paired or single sacs attached to first abdominal somite.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat\b0{}. Marine and freshwater, planktonic; free-living.
}
