{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Flabellifera (Isopoda, Peracarida, Malacostraca)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{}, rostrum absent; eyes sessile or absent; compound, visual elements present; ocular scale absent; naupliar eyes absent. \b\i{}Antennules (antenna 1)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}biramous, or uniramous\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}peduncle and flagellum distinct\i0\b0{}; endopod reduced, vestigial or absent; exopod well developed, whip-like or exopod reduced, vestigial or absent; statocyst absent. Antennae (antenna 2) uniramous; exopod multiarticulate. Mandible uniramous; palp present, or absent. Maxillipeds, 1 pair; uniramous. \b{}Thorax\b0{}. \b\i{}Carapace\i0\b0{} \b\i{}absent\i0\b0{}. Thorax and abdomen differentiated. \b\i{}Peraeopods (legs)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}7 pairs, or 6 pairs\i0\b0{}; uniramous; non-phyllopodous; undifferentiated (simple), or differentiated (some prehensile); some coxae forming lateral plates. Peraeopod 1 (leg 1) simple, or subchelate. Peraeopod 2 (leg 2) simple, or subchelate. Peraeopod 3 (leg 3) simple. \b{}Abdomen\b0{} with 5 somites or with 4 somites or with 3 somites or with 1\endash{}2 somites. \b\i{}Epimera\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Pleopods\i0\b0{} present, 5 pairs; well developed, broad and flat; \b\i{}first or second pair not modified into operculum\i0\b0{}; pleopod 2 forming a gonopod (eg. appendix masculina) in males. \b\i{}Uropods\i0\b0{} well developed or vestigial or absent, 1 pair, \b\i{}positioned ventrolaterally\i0\b0{}; rami present, exopod without diaresis; endopod without statocyst. \b\i{}Telson\i0\b0{} \b\i{}fused to pleon (pleotelson)\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Larval development\b0{}. Epimorphic. Embryos carried in ventral thoracic brood pouch.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat\b0{}. Marine, freshwater; free-living.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Remarks\b0{}. According to Poore and Wilson (pers comm) the flabelliferan isopods are a polyphyletic group. According to Bruce (pers comm) one genus, \i{}Paraviriea \i0{}Chilton, 1922, totally lacks uropods.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Distribution\b0{}. Worldwide.
}
