{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Leptostraca (Malacostraca)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{}, rostrum present; head, rostrum articulated; eyes stalked; compound, visual elements present, or visual elements absent; ocular scale present, or ocular scale absent; naupliar eyes absent. Antennules (antenna 1) biramous; peduncle and flagellum distinct; endopod well developed; exopod scale-like or plate-like or exopod reduced, vestigial or absent. \b\i{}Antennae (antenna 2)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}uniramous\i0\b0{}. Mandible uniramous; palp present. Maxillipeds, absent. \b{}Thorax\b0{}. \b\i{}Carapace\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present\i0\b0{}, bivalved, enclosing head and thorax or enclosing head, thorax and part of the abdomen, laterally compressed, smooth. Thorax and abdomen differentiated. \b\i{}Peraeopods (legs)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}8 pairs\i0\b0{}; phyllopodous (broad or narrow); undifferentiated (simple). \b{}Abdomen\b0{} with 8 somites. Epimera absent (check). Pleopods present, 6 pairs. Uropods well developed, 1 pair, positioned terminally or subterminally; rami absent; lanceolate. Telson absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Larval development\b0{}. Epimorphic. Embryos carried in ventral thoracic brood pouch.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat\b0{}. Marine benthic, occasionally planktonic; free-living.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Remarks\b0{}. Leptostracans are generally considered to be filter feeders (Mclaughlin, 1980), but they are often taken in baited traps which indicates that they act as at least opportunistic scavengers.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Distribution\b0{}. Worldwide.
}
