{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Mysidacea (Peracarida, Malacostraca)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Common name\b0{}. Mysid Shrimps.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b\i{}\b{}Head\b0{}, \i0\b0{}rostrum present or absent; \b\i{}eyes\i0\b0{} \b\i{}stalked\i0\b0{}; compound, visual elements present, or visual elements absent; ocular scale absent; naupliar eyes absent. Antennules (antenna 1) biramous; peduncle and flagellum distinct; endopod well developed; exopod well developed, whip-like. Antennae (antenna 2) biramous; exopod forming a scaphocerite. Mandible uniramous; palp present. Maxillipeds, 2 pairs, or 1 pair; uniramous. \b{}Thorax\b0{}. Carapace present, univalved, enclosing head and thorax or enclosing head and anterior thoracic somites or enclosing head, thorax and part of the abdomen, laterally compressed, smooth. Thorax and abdomen differentiated. \b\i{}Peraeopods (legs)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}7 pairs, or 6 pairs\i0\b0{}; biramous; non-phyllopodous; undifferentiated (simple), or differentiated (some prehensile). \b{}Abdomen\b0{} present, well developed, with 6 somites. Epimera present or absent. Pleopods present or absent, 5 pairs; well developed, narrow and rounded, or reduced. \b\i{}Uropods\i0\b0{} 1 pair, positioned ventrolaterally; rami present, exopod without diaresis or exopod with diaresis, partial or complete (partial or completely developed); \b\i{}endopod with statocyst\i0\b0{}. Telson present (not fused to pleon).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Larval development\b0{}. Epimorphic. Embryos carried in ventral thoracic brood pouch.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat\b0{}. Marine, occasionally brackish or freshwater; pelagic, occasionally epibenthic or benthic; free-living.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Distribution\b0{}. Worldwide.
}
