{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Poecilostomatoida (Copepoda, Maxillipoda)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b\i{}\b{}Head\b0{}, \i0\b0{}rostrum present; \b\i{}eyes\i0\b0{} \b\i{}absent\i0\b0{}; naupliar eyes present, or naupliar eyes absent. Antennules (antenna 1) uniramous; not geniculate in males; peduncle and flagellum indistinguishable; exopod well developed, whip-like, with 5\endash{}8 articles. \b\i{}Antennae (antenna 2)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}uniramous\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}exopod vestigial or absent\i0\b0{}; endopod with 3 articles. Mandible biramous, or uniramous; palp present, or absent. Maxillipeds, 2 pairs, or 1 pair; uniramous. \b{}Thorax\b0{}. \b\i{}Carapace\i0\b0{} \b\i{}absent\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Thorax and abdomen\i0\b0{} differentiated, \b\i{}boundary between fourth and fifth pedigerous somites (podoplean tagmosis)\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Peraeopods (legs)\i0\b0{} \b\i{}6 pairs, or 5 pairs, or 4 pairs (sixth legs represented by opercular plates)\i0\b0{}; biramous, or uniramous (fifth and sixth legs uniramous); non-phyllopodous; \b\i{}differentiated (some prehensile)\i0\b0{}; each article joined by intercoxal sclerite; anterior peraeopods (swimming legs) with 1 robust seta on outer margin of exopod article 1. \b{}Abdomen\b0{} with 5 somites (or fewer). Epimera absent. Pleopods absent. Uropods well developed, 1 pair, positioned terminally or subterminally; rami absent; subrectangular to subquadrate. Telson absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Larval development\b0{}. Metamorphic. Embryos carried in paired or single sacs attached to first abdominal somite.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Remarks\b0{}. One of the few obvious differences between harpacticoid copepods and poecilostomatoid copepods is the number of articles in the exopod of the antennae (antenna 2). Generally harpacticoids have an exopod on the antennae and in poecelostomatoids the exopod is absent. But within the Harpacticoida most species of Ancorabolidae do not have an exopod and the entire antennae is absent in the cerviniid genus \i{}Tonpostratiotes. \i0{}Consequently it is not possible to separate these two orders based on diagnostic characters.
}
