{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Thalassinidea (Decapoda, Eucarida, Malacostraca)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Common name\b0{}. Ghost Shrimps, Mud Shrimps, Sponge Shrimps.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{}, rostrum present or absent; eyes stalked or absent; compound, visual elements present; ocular scale absent; naupliar eyes absent. Antennules (antenna 1) biramous; peduncle and flagellum distinct; endopod well developed; exopod well developed, whip-like. Antennae (antenna 2) biramous, or uniramous; exopod multiarticulate, or exopod forming a scaphocerite. Mandible uniramous. Maxillipeds, 3 pairs; biramous, or uniramous. \b{}Thorax\b0{}. \b\i{}Carapace\i0\b0{} present, univalved, enclosing head and thorax, \b\i{}laterally compressed\i0\b0{}, smooth. \b\i{}Sternum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}divided\i0\b0{}. Thorax and abdomen differentiated. \b\i{}Peraeopods (legs)\i0\b0{} 5 pairs; uniramous; non-phyllopodous; differentiated (some prehensile); \b\i{}pylopod absent\i0\b0{}. Peraeopods 2\endash{}5 (legs) basis and ischium fused. Peraeopod 1 (leg 1) simple, or chelate, or subchelate. Peraeopod 2 (leg 2) simple, or chelate. Peraeopod 3 (leg 3) simple. Peraeopod 5 (leg 5) well developed. \b{}Abdomen\b0{} with 6 somites. Epimera present. Pleopods present, 5 pairs; well developed, narrow and rounded, or reduced; pleopod 1 forming a gonopod (eg. petasma) in males, or pleopod 2 forming a gonopod (eg. appendix masculina) in males. Uropods well developed, 1 pair, positioned ventrolaterally; rami present, exopod without diaresis or exopod with diaresis, partial or complete; endopod without statocyst. Telson present (not fused to pleon).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Larval development\b0{}. Embryos attached to pleopods (check).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat\b0{}. Benthic mud-dwellers.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Remarks\b0{}. According to Poore (1994) the only character which absolutely separates thalassinideans from other lobster groups is the row of setae along the posterior margin of peraeopod 2 (thoracopod 5) between the ischium and the propodus.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Distribution\b0{}. Worldwide.
}
