{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Ampithoidae Stebbing, 1899 \fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{} free, not coalesced with peraeonite 1; exposed; as long as deep, or longer than deep, or deeper than long; rostrum present or absent, short; eyes present, well developed or obsolescent, or absent; not coalesced; 1 pair; not bulging. Body laterally compressed; cuticle smooth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Antenna 1\i0{} shorter than antenna 2, or subequal to antenna 2, or longer than antenna 2; peduncle with sparse robust and slender setae; 3-articulate; peduncular article 1 shorter than article 2, or subequal to article 2, or longer than article 2; antenna 1 article 2 longer than article 3; peduncular articles 1\endash{}2 not geniculate; accessory flagellum present, or absent; callynophore absent. \i{}Antenna 2\i0{} present; short, or medium length; articles not folded in zigzag fashion; without hook-like process; flagellum shorter than peduncle, or as long as peduncle, or longer than peduncle; 5 or more articulate; not clavate; \i{}calceoli\i0{} absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Mouthparts\i0{} well developed. \i{}Mandible\i0{} incisor dentate; lacinia mobilis present on both sides; accessory setal row without distal tuft; molar present or absent, medium, triturative; palp present or absent. \i{}Maxilla 1\i0{} present; inner plate present, weakly setose apically or without setae; palp present or absent, not clavate, 0 -articulate or 2 -articulate. \i{}Maxilla 2\i0{} inner plate present; outer plate present. \i{}Maxilliped\i0{} inner and outer plates well developed or reduced, palps present, well developed or reduced; inner plates well developed, separate; outer plates present, large or small; palp 4-articulate, article 3 without rugosities. \b\i{}\i{}Labium\i0{}\i0\b0{} \b\i{}notched\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Peraeon\b0{}. Peraeonites 1\endash{}7 separate; complete; sternal gills absent; pleurae absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Coxae 1\endash{}7\i0{} well developed, none fused with peraeonites. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}4\i0{} longer than broad or broader than long, overlapping or discontiguous, coxa 1 anteroventrally acuminate or coxae not acuminate. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}3\i0{} not successively smaller, none vestigial. \i{}Coxae 2\endash{}4\i0{} none immensely broadened.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Gnathopod 1\i0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; smaller (or weaker) than gnathopod 2, or subequal to gnathopod 2, or larger (or stouter) than gnathopod 2; smaller than coxa 2, or subequal to coxa 2, or larger than coxa 2; gnathopod 1 merus and carpus not rotated; carpus/propodus not cantilevered; carpus shorter than propodus, or subequal to propodus; slightly produced along posterior margin of propodus, or not produced along posterior margin of propodus; dactylus large. \i{}Gnathopod 2\i0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; subchelate, or chelate; coxa smaller than but not hidden by coxa 3, or subequal to but not hidden by coxa 3, or larger than coxa 3; ischium short; merus not fused along posterior margin of carpus or produced away from it; carpus/propodus not cantilevered, carpus short or elongate, shorter than propodus or subequal to propodus, strongly produced along posterior margin of propodus or slightly produced along posterior margin of propodus or not produced along posterior margin of propodus.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Peraeopods\i0{} heteropodous (3\endash{}4 directed posteriorly, 5\endash{}7 directed anteriorly), some or all prehensile or none prehensile; 3\endash{}4 with glandular basis; 3\endash{}7 without hooded dactyli, 3\endash{}7 propodi without distal spurs. \i{}Peraeopod 3\i0{} well developed; coxa well developed, longer than broad; carpus shorter than propodus or subequal to propodus, not produced; dactylus well developed. \i{}Peraeopod 4\i0{} well developed; coxa subequal to coxa 3, not acuminate, without posteroventral lobe; carpus not produced. \i{}Peraeopods 5\endash{}7\i0{} with few robust or slender setae; dactyli without slender or robust setae. \i{}Peraeopod 5\i0{} well developed; shorter than peraeopod 6; coxa subequal to coxa 4 or larger than coxa 4, with posterodorsal lobe or without posterior lobe; basis expanded or slightly expanded, subrectangular or subovate, without posteroventral lobe; merus/carpus free; carpus linear; setae absent. \i{}Peraeopod 6\i0{} shorter than peraeopod 7, or subequal in length to peraeopod 7; merus/carpus free; dactylus without setae. \i{}Peraeopod 7\i0{} with 6\endash{}7 well developed articles; longer than peraeopod 5; similar in structure to peraeopod 6; with 7 articles; basis expanded or slightly expanded, without dense slender setae; dactylus without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Pleon\b0{}. Pleonites 1\endash{}3 without transverse dorsal serrations, without dorsal carina; without slender or robust dorsal setae. \i{}Epimera 1\endash{}3\i0{} present. \i{}Epimeron 1\i0{} well developed. \i{}Epimeron 2\i0{} without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Urosome\i0{} not dorsoventrally flattened; urosomites 1 to 3 free; urosomite 1 subequal to urosomite 2, or longer than urosomite 2; urosome urosomites not carinate; urosomites 1\endash{}2 without transverse dorsal serrations. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}2\i0{} apices of rami with robust setae. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}3\i0{} similar in structure and size. \i{}Uropod 1\i0{} peduncle without long plumose setae, without basofacial robust seta, with ventromedial spur or without ventromedial spur. \i{}Uropod 2\i0{} well developed; with ventromedial spur or without ventromedial spur, without dorsal flange; inner ramus subequal to outer ramus, or longer than outer ramus. \i{}Uropod 3\i0{} not sexually dimorphic; peduncle short or elongate; outer ramus shorter than peduncle, 1-articulate, without recurved spines. \i{}Telson\i0{} thickened dorsoventrally; entire; as long as broad, or broader than long; apical robust setae present, or absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat.\b0{} marine or estuarine.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat.\b0{} benthic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Remarks.\b0{} The only difference between ampithoids and ischyrocerids (as currently defined) is the apical setae of the inner ramus of uropod 3. This is because the recurved robust setae on the outer ramus of uropod 3 does not define the family Ampithoidae.
}
