{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang1033\paperw12242\paperh15842\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{
\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}


\pard\plain\s3\sa200\keepn\fs24\b{}DELTA sample data. Key 5 - confirmatory characters.\b0{} 
\par\pard\plain\s6\sb100\li340\fi-340\fs22{}\i{}Characters:\i0{} 89 indata, 75 included, 28 in key.\par\sb0{}\i{}Items:\i0{} 14 in data, 14 included, 17 in key.\par{}\i{}Parameters:\i0{} Rbase = 1.40 Abase = 2.00 Reuse = 1.01 Varywt =0.80\par{}\i{}Characters included:\i0{} 2–24 26–77\par\sa100{}\i{}Character reliabilities:\i0{} 2–5,7.0 7–10,7.0 11–13,8.0 14–26,7.0 27,8.0 28–38,7.0 40–43,7.0 44,8.0 45–47,7.0 48,8.0 49–63,7.0 64,6.0 65,7.0 66,8.0 67,7.0 68,2.0 69,1.0 70,2.0 71–76,1.0 77,8.0 78–85,1.0 86,6.0


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb240\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}1.\tab{}Hilum short
\tab{} 2
\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Hilum long-linear
\tab{} 11


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}2(1).\tab{}Female-fertile florets 1
\tab{} 3
\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Female-fertile florets 2
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Poa\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Female-fertile florets 3 or more
\tab{} 9


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}3(2).\tab{}Spikelets disarticulating above the glumes
\tab{} 4
\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Spikelets disarticulating between the glumes
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Cynodon\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Spikelets falling with the glumes
\tab{} 6
\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Spikelets not disarticulating
\tab{} 8


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}4(3).\tab{}Inflorescence of spicate main branches; ligule a fringed membrane to a fringe of hairs; spikelets secund; glumes shorter than the adjacent lemmas
\tab{} 5
\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Inflorescence paniculate; ligule an unfringed membrane; spikelets not secund; glumes long relative to the adjacent lemmas
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Agrostis\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}5(4).\tab{}Hairy callus present; lemmas awned; biochemical type PCK
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Chloris\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Hairy callus absent; lemmas awnless; biochemical type NAD–ME
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Cynodon\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}6(3).\tab{}Palea relatively long; spikelet-bearing axes persistent; hairy callus absent; glumes very unequal
\tab{} 7
\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Palea very reduced; spikelet-bearing axes disarticulating; hairy callus present; glumes more or less equal
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Andropogon\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}7(6).\tab{}Inflorescence of spicate main branches; spikelets secund
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Echinochloa\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Inflorescence paniculate; spikelets not secund
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Panicum\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}8(3).\tab{}Plants monoecious with all the fertile spikelets unisexual; fruiting inflorescence a massive, spatheate cob, the fruits in many rows; glumes more or less equal; stamens 0
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Zea\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets; fruiting inflorescence not as in maize; glumes very unequal; stamens 3
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Panicum\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}9(2).\tab{}Inflorescence of spicate main branches; spikelets secund; fruit sculptured; pericarp free
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Eleusine\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Inflorescence paniculate; spikelets not secund; fruit smooth; pericarp fused
\tab{} 10


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}10(9).\tab{}Glumes carinate; lemmas carinate; lodicules membranous; stigmas white
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Poa\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Glumes non-carinate; lemmas non-carinate; lodicules fleshy; stigmas brown
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Phragmites\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}11(1).\tab{}Stamens 3; mesophyll without arm cells; midrib with one bundle only
\tab{} 12
\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Stamens 6; mesophyll with arm cells; midrib having complex vascularization
\tab{} 13


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}12(11).\tab{}Ligule an unfringed membrane; hairy callus absent; glumes very unequal; glumes shorter than the adjacent lemmas
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Festuca\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Ligule a fringed membrane to a fringe of hairs; hairy callus present; glumes more or less equal; glumes long relative to the adjacent lemmas
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Anisopogon\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s31\fi-907\li907\sb100\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}13(11).\tab{}Inflorescence a complex of ‘partial inflorescences’ and intervening foliar organs; rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret; lemmas blunt; lodicules ciliate
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Bambusa\i0{}\b0{}


\par\pard\plain\s30\fi-907\li907\sb0\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9070\fs22{}\tab{}Inflorescence not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs; rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret; lemmas pointed; lodicules glabrous
\tab{} \b{}\i{}Oryza\i0{}\b0{}


}


