{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Cyamidae White, 1847 \fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{} partially or completely coalesced with peraeonite 1; exposed; as long as deep, or longer than deep; rostrum absent; eyes present, well developed or obsolescent; not coalesced; 1 pair; not bulging. Body dorsoventrally flattened; cuticle smooth, or processiferous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Antenna 1\i0{} longer than antenna 2; peduncle with sparse robust and slender setae; 3-articulate; peduncular article 1 subequal to article 2; antenna 1 article 2 shorter than article 3, or subequal to article 3; peduncular articles 1\endash{}2 not geniculate; accessory flagellum absent; callynophore absent. \i{}Antenna 2\i0{} present; short; articles not folded in zigzag fashion; without hook-like process; flagellum absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Mouthparts\i0{} reduced. \i{}Mandible\i0{} incisor dentate; lacinia mobilis present on both sides; accessory setal row without distal tuft; molar present or absent, vestigial or medium, non-triturative; palp absent. \i{}Maxilla 1\i0{} present; inner plate absent; palp present, not clavate, 1 -articulate. \i{}Maxilla 2\i0{} inner plate present; outer plate present, or absent. \i{}Maxilliped\i0{} inner and outer plates well developed or reduced, palps present, well developed or reduced, or forming small triangular lobes, palps absent, or inner and outer plates well developed or reduced, palps absent; inner plates reduced, fused medially or separate; outer plates absent; palp 4-articulate, article 3 without rugosities. \i{}Labium\i0{} smooth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Peraeon\b0{}. Peraeonites 1\endash{}7 separate; complete; sternal gills absent; pleurae present, or absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Coxae 1\endash{}7\i0{} vestigial or absent, none fused with peraeonites. Coxae not acuminate. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}3\i0{} not successively smaller, none vestigial. \i{}Coxae 2\endash{}4\i0{} none immensely broadened.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Gnathopod 1\i0{} not sexually dimorphic; smaller (or weaker) than gnathopod 2, or subequal to gnathopod 2; gnathopod 1 merus and carpus not rotated; carpus/propodus not cantilevered; carpus shorter than propodus; not produced along posterior margin of propodus; dactylus large. \i{}Gnathopod 2\i0{} not sexually dimorphic; subchelate; ischium short; merus not fused along posterior margin of carpus or produced away from it; carpus/propodus not cantilevered, carpus short, shorter than propodus, not produced along posterior margin of propodus.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Peraeopods\i0{} 3\endash{}4 absent, 5\endash{}7 directed posteriorly, some or all prehensile; 3\endash{}7 without hooded dactyli, 3\endash{}7 propodi without distal spurs. \i{}Peraeopod 3\i0{} absent. \i{}Peraeopod 4\i0{} small; not acuminate. \i{}Peraeopods 5\endash{}7\i0{} with few robust or slender setae; dactyli without slender or robust setae. \i{}Peraeopod 5\i0{} well developed; subequal in length to peraeopod 6; basis expanded or slightly expanded, subrectangular, without posteroventral lobe; merus/carpus fused; setae absent. \b\i{}\i{}Peraeopod 6\i0{}\i0\b0{} subequal in length to peraeopod 7; \b\i{}merus/carpus fused\i0\b0{}; dactylus without setae. \i{}Peraeopod 7\i0{} with 6\endash{}7 well developed articles; subequal to peraeopod 5; similar in structure to peraeopod 6; with 7 articles; basis expanded or slightly expanded, without dense slender setae; dactylus without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Pleon\b0{}. Pleonites 1\endash{}3 without transverse dorsal serrations, without dorsal carina; without slender or robust dorsal setae. \i{}Epimera 1\endash{}3\i0{} present. \i{}Epimeron 1\i0{} well developed.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Urosome\i0{} not dorsoventrally flattened; urosomites 1 to 3 coalesced; urosomites 1\endash{}2 without transverse dorsal serrations. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}3\i0{} reduced to one vestigial pair. \i{}Uropod 2\i0{} absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat.\b0{} marine.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat.\b0{} epiparasites.
}
