{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Lysianassidae\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{} free, not coalesced with peraeonite 1; exposed, or concealed or partially concealed; as long as deep, or longer than deep, or deeper than long; anteroventral margin weakly recessed or moderately recessed or rounded or oblique, anteroventral margin deeply excavate or shallowly excavate or not excavate, anteroventral corner rounded or subquadrate; rostrum present or absent, short; eyes present, well developed or obsolescent, or absent; coalesced, or not coalesced; 1 pair, or three-segmented, ladder-like with ventral concave lens; not bulging. Body laterally compressed; cuticle smooth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Antenna 1\i0{} shorter than antenna 2, or subequal to antenna 2; peduncle with sparse robust and slender setae; 3-articulate; peduncular article 1 longer than article 2; antenna 1 article 2 subequal to article 3, or longer than article 3; peduncular articles 1\endash{}2 geniculate, or not geniculate; accessory flagellum present, or absent; callynophore present, or absent. \i{}Antenna 2\i0{} present; short, or medium length, or long, or greater than body length; articles not folded in zigzag fashion; without hook-like process; flagellum shorter than peduncle, or as long as peduncle, or longer than peduncle; less than 5-articulate, or 5 or more articulate; not clavate; \i{}calceoli\i0{} present, or absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Mouthparts\i0{} well developed or reduced. \b\i{}\i{}Mandi\i0\b0{}ble\i0{} incisor smooth; \b\i{}lacinia mobilis\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present on left side only, or absent\i0\b0{}; accessory setal row without distal tuft; molar present or absent, vestigial or small or medium, triturative or non-triturative; palp present or absent. \i{}Maxilla 1\i0{} present; inner plate present, weakly setose apically or without setae; palp present or absent, not clavate, 0\endash{}1.5\endash{}2 -articulate. \i{}Maxilla 2\i0{} inner plate present; outer plate present. \i{}Maxilliped\i0{} inner and outer plates well developed or reduced, palps present, well developed or reduced; inner plates well developed, separate; outer plates present, very large or large or small; palp 4-articulate or 3-articulate, article 3 without rugosities. \i{}Labium\i0{} smooth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Peraeon\b0{}. Peraeonites 1\endash{}7 separate; complete; sternal gills absent; pleurae absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Coxae 1\endash{}7\i0{} well developed, none fused with peraeonites. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}4\i0{} longer than broad or as long as broad, overlapping, coxae not acuminate. \b\i{}\i{}Coxae 1\endash{}3\i0{}\i0\b0{} not successively smaller, \b\i{}none vestigial or coxa 1 reduced, tapering or coxa 1 vestigial\i0\b0{}. \i{}Coxae 2\endash{}4\i0{} none immensely broadened.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b\i{}\i{}Gnathopod 1\i0{}\i0\b0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; smaller (or weaker) than gnathopod 2, or subequal to gnathopod 2, or larger (or stouter) than gnathopod 2; vestigial, hidden or partially hidden by coxa 2, or smaller than coxa 2, or subequal to coxa 2, or larger than coxa 2; \b\i{}gnathopod 1\i0\b0{} \b\i{}merus and carpus not rotated\i0\b0{}; carpus/propodus not cantilevered; carpus shorter than propodus, or subequal to propodus, or longer than propodus; not produced along posterior margin of propodus; dactylus large, or small to minute, strongly or weakly covered in setae. \b\i{}\i{}Gnathopod 2\i0{}\i0\b0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; subchelate, or chelate; \b\i{}coxa\i0\b0{} \b\i{}subequal to but not hidden by coxa 3\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}ischium\i0\b0{} \b\i{}elongate\i0\b0{}; merus not fused along posterior margin of carpus or produced away from it; carpus/propodus not cantilevered, carpus elongate, subequal to propodus or longer than propodus, not produced along posterior margin of propodus.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b\i{}\i{}Peraeopods\i0{}\i0\b0{} heteropodous (3\endash{}4 directed posteriorly, 5\endash{}7 directed anteriorly), \b\i{}none prehensile\i0\b0{}; 3\endash{}4 not glandular; 3\endash{}7 without hooded dactyli, 3\endash{}7 propodi without distal spurs. \b\i{}\i{}Peraeopod 3\i0{}\i0\b0{} well developed; \b\i{}coxa\i0\b0{} well developed, longer than broad; \b\i{}carpus\i0\b0{} shorter than propodus or subequal to propodus or longer than propodus, \b\i{}not produced\i0\b0{}; dactylus well developed. \i{}Peraeopod 4\i0{} well developed; coxa subequal to coxa 3 or larger than coxa 3, not acuminate, with well developed posteroventral lobe; carpus not produced. \i{}Peraeopods 5\endash{}7\i0{} with many marginal slender setae and few or no robust setae, or with few robust or slender setae; dactyli without slender or robust setae. \b\i{}\i{}Peraeopod 5\i0{}\i0\b0{} well developed; shorter than peraeopod 6, or subequal in length to peraeopod 6; \b\i{}coxa\i0\b0{} smaller than coxa 4 or subequal to coxa 4 or larger than coxa 4, with ventrally produced posterior lobe or without posterior lobe; \b\i{}basis\i0\b0{} \b\i{}expanded or slightly expanded\i0\b0{}, subrectangular or subquadrate or subovate, \b\i{}with posteroventral lobe or without posteroventral lobe\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}merus/carpus\i0\b0{} free; \b\i{}carpus\i0\b0{} \b\i{}linear\i0\b0{}; setae absent. \i{}Peraeopod 6\i0{} shorter than peraeopod 7, or subequal in length to peraeopod 7, or longer than peraeopod 7; merus/carpus free; dactylus without setae. \i{}Peraeopod 7\i0{} with 6\endash{}7 well developed articles; subequal to peraeopod 5, or longer than peraeopod 5; similar in structure to peraeopod 6; with 7 articles; basis expanded or slightly expanded, without dense slender setae; dactylus without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Pleon\b0{}. Pleonites 1\endash{}3 without transverse dorsal serrations, pleonite 3 with dorsal carina or each with dorsal carina or without dorsal carina; without slender or robust dorsal setae. \i{}Epimera 1\endash{}3\i0{} present. \i{}Epimeron 1\i0{} well developed. \i{}Epimeron 2\i0{} without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Urosome\i0{} not dorsoventrally flattened; urosomites 1 to 3 free, or 1 free, 2 and 3 coalesced; urosomite 1 longer than urosomite 2, or much longer than urosomite 2; urosome urosomite 1 carinate, or urosomite 3 carinate, or urosomites not carinate; urosomites 1\endash{}2 without transverse dorsal serrations. \b\i{}\i{}Uropods 1\endash{}2\i0{} apices of rami\i0\b0{} \b\i{}without robust setae\i0\b0{}. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}3\i0{} similar in structure and size. \i{}Uropod 1\i0{} peduncle with long plumose setae or without long plumose setae, without basofacial robust seta, without ventromedial spur. \i{}Uropod 2\i0{} well developed; without ventromedial spur, without dorsal flange; inner ramus shorter than outer ramus, or subequal to outer ramus. \i{}Uropod 3\i0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; peduncle short or elongate; outer ramus shorter than peduncle or subequal to peduncle or longer than peduncle, 1-articulate or 2-articulate, without recurved spines. \i{}Telson\i0{} laminar, or hemiacetabulate; deeply cleft, or moderately cleft, or weakly cleft, or notched, or emarginate, or entire; longer than broad, or as long as broad, or broader than long; apical robust setae present, or absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat.\b0{} marine.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat.\b0{} benthic or demersal or planktonic.
}
