{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang1033\paperw12242\paperh15842\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\f2{}\i{}Agrostis\i0{} L.\f0\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Agraulus\i0{} P. Beauv., \pard{} \i{}Agrestis\i0{} Bub., \i{}Anomalotis\i0{} Steud., \i{}Bromidium\i0{} Nees, \i{}Candollea\i0{} Steud., \i{}Chaetotropis\i0{} Kunth, \i{}Decandolea\i0{} Batard, \i{}Didymochaeta\i0{} Steud., \i{}Lachnagrostis\i0{} Trin., \i{}Neoschischkinia\i0{} Tsvelev, \i{}Notonema\i0{} Raf., \i{}Pentatherum\i0{} Nabelek, \i{}Podagrostis\i0{} (Griseb.) Scribn., \i{}Senisetum\i0{} Koidz., \i{}Trichodium\i0{} Michaux, \i{}Vilfa\i0{} Adans.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology. \b0\f0\fs22{}Annual, or perennial. Culms mostly (3–)5–100 cm high; herbaceous; unbranched above. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear; 0.2–10 mm wide. \b{}Ligule\b0{} \b{}an unfringed membrane\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Inflorescence. \b0\f0\fs22{}Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence paniculate; open, or contracted (e.g., \i{}Bromidium\i0{}); not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit. \b0\f0\fs22{}\b{}Spikelets\b0{} 0.8–4 mm long; compressed laterally; \b{}disarticulating above the glumes\b0{}. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret, or terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus present (the hairs less than 0.5 mm long), or absent. \i{}\b{}Glumes\b0{}\i0{} two; more or less equal; \b{}long relative to the adjacent lemmas\b0{}; awnless; carinate, or non-carinate. Upper glume 1 nerved. \b{}Spikelets\b0{} \b{}with female-fertile florets only\b0{}. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. \b{}Lemmas\b0{} \b{}entire to incised (usually truncate or emarginate, sometimes toothed via excurrent veins)\b0{}; awnless, or mucronate, or awned. Awns when present, 1, or 3 (\i{}Bromidium\i0{}), or 5 (rarely); dorsal; geniculate; much shorter than the body of the lemma to about as long as the body of the lemma, or much longer than the body of the lemma (rarely). \b{}Lemmas\b0{} \b{}non-carinate\b0{}; without a germination flap; 3–5 nerved. Palea nearly always present; relatively long, or conspicuous but relatively short, or very reduced. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; white. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. \b{}Hilum\b0{} \b{}short\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy. \b0\f0\fs22{}C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous, or not readily distinguishable; with one bundle only. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Taxonomy, distribution. \b0\f0\fs22{}Pooideae; Poodae; Aveneae. About 220 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Cape, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Anatomical references. \b0\f0\fs22{}Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
