{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang1033\paperw12242\paperh15842\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\f2{}\i{}Echinochloa\i0{} P. Beauv.\f0\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Ornithospermum\i0{} Dumoulin, \i{}Tema\i0{} Adans.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology. \b0\f0\fs22{}Annual, or perennial. Culms 40–360 cm high; herbaceous; branched above, or unbranched above. Culm nodes glabrous. \b{}Ligule\b0{} present, or absent; \b{}when present, \b0{}\b{}a fringe of hairs\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Inflorescence. \b0\f0\fs22{}Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b{}Inflorescence\b0{} \b{}of spicate main branches (the spikelets often hispid)\b0{}; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. \b{}Spikelets\b0{} \b{}paired, or clustered in little secondary racemelets\b0{}; \b{}secund\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit. \b0\f0\fs22{}\b{}Spikelets\b0{} 2.3–7 mm long; \b{}compressed dorsiventrally\b0{}; falling with the glumes. Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal; (the upper) shorter than the adjacent lemmas to long relative to the adjacent lemmas; awned, or awnless. \b{}Upper glume\b0{} \b{}5 nerved, or 7 nerved\b0{}. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 1; male (rarely), or sterile. The proximal lemmas awned, or awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas entire; awnless (obtuse to apiculate); non-carinate; with a clear germination flap; 5 nerved. \b{}Palea\b0{} \b{}present (the tip reflexed)\b0{}; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; red pigmented. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy. \b0\f0\fs22{}C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NADP–ME (3 species); XyMS–. Midrib conspicuous; having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Taxonomy, distribution. \b0\f0\fs22{}Panicoideae; Panicodae; Paniceae. 30–40 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, and Australian.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Anatomical references. \b0\f0\fs22{}Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
