{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang1033\paperw12242\paperh15842\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\f2{}\i{}Oryza\i0{} L.\f0\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Padia\i0{} Moritzi
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology. \b0\f0\fs22{}Annual, or perennial. \b{}Culms\b0{} 30–300 cm high; \b{}herbaceous\b0{}. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear to linear-lanceolate; pseudopetiolate, or not pseudopetiolate. \b{}Ligule\b0{} \b{}an unfringed membrane\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Inflorescence. \b0\f0\fs22{}Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b{}Inflorescence\b0{} \b{}paniculate (axes usually wavy, the spikelets appressed), or of spicate main branches (the primary branches often reduced to racemes)\b0{}; open; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit. \b0\f0\fs22{}Spikelets 4–12 mm long; strongly compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes (i.e. above the pedicel cup representing them). Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \b{}Glumes\b0{} \b{}present to absent (represented only by a small 2-lobed cupule)\b0{}; if present, two; more or less equal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless. \b{}Upper glume\b0{} \b{}0 nerved\b0{}. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. \b{}The proximal incomplete florets\b0{} \b{}2 (small, vestigial, no more than half the spikelet length, sometimes only bristles)\b0{}; sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas entire; pointed; awnless, or mucronate, or awned. Awns when present, 1; apical; non-geniculate; much shorter than the body of the lemma to much longer than the body of the lemma. Lemmas strongly carinate; 3–9 nerved. Palea present; relatively long (but narrower than the lemma). \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous (but the membranous flange may be narrow); glabrous. \b{}Stamens\b0{} \b{}6\b0{}. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small, or medium sized, or large. Hilum long-linear.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy. \b0\f0\fs22{}C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Mesophyll with arm cells; without fusoids. Midrib conspicuous; having complex vascularization. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Taxonomy, distribution. \b0\f0\fs22{}Bambusoideae; Oryzodae; Oryzeae. 25 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, and Neotropical.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Anatomical references. \b0\f0\fs22{}Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
