{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang1033\paperw12242\paperh15842\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\f2{}\i{}Anisopogon\i0{} R.Br.\f0\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology. \b0\f0\fs22{}\b{}\b0{}\b{}Oat-like \b0{}\b{}perennial\b0{}. \b{}Culms\b0{} \b{}60–110 cm high\b0{}; herbaceous. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear-lanceolate; 2–3 mm wide. \b{}Ligule\b0{} \b{}a fringed membrane (the membrane short to relatively long, hairy on the back)\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Inflorescence. \b0\f0\fs22{}Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence paniculate; open; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit. \b0\f0\fs22{}\b{}Spikelets\b0{} \b{}40–60 mm long\b0{}; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes. \b{}Rachilla\b0{} \b{}prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret (the slender prolongation 6–8 mm long, in the palea groove)\b0{}. \b{}Hairy callus\b0{} \b{}present (about 6 mm long, with dense, white hairs)\b0{}. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; more or less equal (the upper slightly longer); long relative to the adjacent lemmas; awnless; non-carinate. Upper glume 7–9 nerved. Spikelets with female-fertile florets only, or with incomplete florets (usually with a single, abortive floret). The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas incised; awned. Awns 3; from a sinus; geniculate; much longer than the body of the lemma (up to 8 cm long). Lemmas non-carinate (rounded on the back); without a germination flap; 3 nerved. Palea present; relatively long (narrow, lanceolate). \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous (two ‘stipoid’ and larger, the third smaller and flimsier); glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary hairy (sparingly so, towards the apex). Stigmas 2, or 3; white. \i{}Fruit\i0{} medium sized. \b{}Hilum\b0{} \b{}long-linear\b0{}. \b{}Pericarp\b0{} \b{}free, or loosely adherent\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy. \b0\f0\fs22{}C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Midrib not readily distinguishable; with one bundle only. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Taxonomy, distribution. \b0\f0\fs22{}Arundinoideae; Stipeae. 1 species. Australian.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Anatomical references. \b0\f0\fs22{}This project.
}
