{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang1033\paperw12242\paperh15842\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\f2{}\i{}Chloris\i0{} O. Swartz\f0\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Actinochloris\i0{} Steud., \i{}Agrostomia\i0{} Cerv., \i{}Apogon\i0{} Steud., \i{}Chloridopsis\i0{} Hack., \i{}Chloropsis\i0{} Kuntze, \i{}Chlorostis\i0{} Raf., \i{}Geopogon\i0{} Steud., \i{}Heterolepis\i0{} Boiss., \i{}Leptochloris\i0{} Kuntze, \i{}Phacellaria\i0{} Steud., \i{}Trichloris\i0{} Benth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology. \b0\f0\fs22{}Annual, or perennial. Culms 10–300 cm high; herbaceous. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear. \b{}Ligule\b0{} \b{}a fringed membrane to a fringe of hairs\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Inflorescence. \b0\f0\fs22{}Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence of spicate main branches (rarely a single raceme); not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. \b{}Spikelet-bearing axes\b0{} \b{}persistent\b0{}. \b{}Spikelets\b0{} solitary, or paired; \b{}secund (on the dorsiventral rachis)\b0{}; not in distinct ‘long-and-short’ combinations.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit. \b0\f0\fs22{}Spikelets 1.8–5.5 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes (the glumes usually persistent). Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. \b{}Hairy callus\b0{} \b{}present (usually minute)\b0{}. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal (divergent); (the longer) usually shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless. Upper glume 1–4 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets (at least one of these conspicuous – the spikelet ‘with two florets’). \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1 (rarely 2). \b{}Lemmas\b0{} entire (truncate), or incised; \b{}awned\b0{}. Awns 1 (usually), or 3; from a sinus, or apical; non-geniculate. \b{}Lemmas\b0{} \b{}carinate\b0{}; without a germination flap; 1–7 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; white, or red pigmented. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short. Pericarp free to fused.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy. \b0\f0\fs22{}C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type PCK (6 species); XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous; with one bundle only, or having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially, or without colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Taxonomy, distribution. \b0\f0\fs22{}Chloridoideae; main chloridoid assemblage. About 55 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, and Australian.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Anatomical references. \b0\f0\fs22{}Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
