{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang1033\paperw12242\paperh15842\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\f2{}\i{}Eleusine\i0{} Gaertn.\f0\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology. \b0\f0\fs22{}\b{}\b0{}\b{}Annual, or perennial (the culms flattened)\b0{}. Culms 10–150 cm high; herbaceous. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear. \b{}Ligule\b0{} \b{}a fringed membrane\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Inflorescence. \b0\f0\fs22{}Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence of spicate main branches; open, or contracted (sometimes forming a capitulum); not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. \b{}Spikelets\b0{} \b{}secund\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit. \b0\f0\fs22{}Spikelets 3.5–11 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes, or not disarticulating (\i{}E. coracana\i0{}); disarticulating between the florets (except in \i{}E. coracana\i0{}). Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; carinate. Upper glume 3–5(–7) nerved. Spikelets with female-fertile florets only, or with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}\b{}Female-fertile florets\b0{}\i0{} \b{}3–15\b0{}. Lemmas entire; pointed, or blunt; awnless to mucronate; carinate; 3 nerved. Palea present. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy, or membranous; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; white, or brown. \i{}\b{}Fruit\b0{}\i0{} small (0.9–2 mm long); \b{}sculptured\b0{}. Hilum short. Pericarp free.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy. \b0\f0\fs22{}C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NAD–ME (2 species); XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous; with one bundle only. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Taxonomy, distribution. \b0\f0\fs22{}Chloridoideae; main chloridoid assemblage. 9 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Cape, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Anatomical references. \b0\f0\fs22{}Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
