{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang1033\paperw12242\paperh15842\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\f2{}\i{}Panicum\i0{} L.\f0\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Chasea\i0{} Nieuw., \i{}Coleataenia\i0{} Griseb., \i{}Dileucaden\i0{} (Raf.) Steud., \i{}Eatonia\i0{} Raf., \i{}Eriolytrum\i0{} Kunth, \i{}Milium\i0{} Adans., \i{}Monachne\i0{} P. Beauv., \i{}Phanopyrum\i0{} (Raf.) Nash, \i{}Polyneura\i0{} Peter, \i{}Psilochloa\i0{} Launert, \i{}Setiacis\i0{} S.L. Chen and Y.X. Jin (? – original description inadequate)
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology. \b0\f0\fs22{}\b{}\b0{}\b{}Annual, or perennial (but no overwintering rosette – by contrast with \i{}Dichanthelium\i0{})\b0{}. Culms 20–400 cm high; woody and persistent, or herbaceous; branched above, or unbranched above. Culm nodes hairy, or glabrous. Leaf blades pseudopetiolate (rarely), or not pseudopetiolate. \b{}Ligule\b0{} \b{}an unfringed membrane, or a fringed membrane to a fringe of hairs\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Inflorescence. \b0\f0\fs22{}\b{}Plants\b0{} \b{}bisexual, with bisexual spikelets\b0{}. \b{}Inflorescence\b0{} \b{}paniculate (except in the \i{}Stolonifera\i0{} group, where it consists of racemes and the distinction from \i{}Brachiaria\i0{} breaks down)\b0{}; open, or contracted; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. \b{}Spikelet-bearing axes\b0{} \b{}persistent\b0{}. \b{}Spikelets\b0{} \b{}not secund (except the American Agrostoidea group, ‘\i{}Psilochloa\i0{}’, etc.)\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit. \b0\f0\fs22{}\b{}Spikelets\b0{} 1.4–6 mm long; \b{}compressed dorsiventrally (with very few exceptions: e.g. \i{}P. hemitomum\i0{})\b0{}; \b{}falling with the glumes, or not disarticulating\b0{}. Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret (very rarely prolonged, e.g. occasionally in \i{}P. heliophilum\i0{}: Zuloaga and Morone 1991). Hairy callus absent. \i{}\b{}Glumes\b0{}\i0{} two; \b{}nearly always \b0{}\b{}very unequal\b0{}; (the longer) long relative to the adjacent lemmas; nearly always awnless (the G\sub{}2\nosupersub{} truncate to pointed, very rarely shortly awn-tipped). Upper glume 3–9 nerved. Spikelets nearly always with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 1, or 2 (rarely); male, or sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas entire; pointed, or blunt; awnless (rarely minutely apiculate); non-carinate; with a clear germination flap; 3–11 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; red pigmented. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short (linear in (e.g.) \i{}P. glutinosum\i0{}, \i{}P. macranthum\i0{}, \i{}P. pilgerianum\i0{} = \i{}Psilochloa\i0{}).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy. \b0\f0\fs22{}C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}, or C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; biochemical type PCK (5 species), or NAD–ME (14 species), or NADP–ME (4 species); when biochemically tested, XyMS+ (C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}, or C\sub{}4\nosupersub{} NAD-ME or PCK), or XyMS– (NADP-ME). Midrib conspicuous, or not readily distinguishable; with one bundle only, or having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially, or without colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma (rarely).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Taxonomy, distribution. \b0\f0\fs22{}Panicoideae; Panicodae; Paniceae. About 370 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\fs21\f2\b{}Anatomical references. \b0\f0\fs22{}Mainly Metcalfe 1960 and this project.
}
