{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Isaeidae Dana, 1853 \fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b{}Head\b0{} free, not coalesced with peraeonite 1; exposed; as long as deep, or longer than deep; anteroventral margin moderately recessed or strongly recessed, anteroventral margin deeply excavate or shallowly excavate, anteroventral corner subquadrate or hooked; rostrum present or absent, short; eyes present, well developed or obsolescent, or absent; not coalesced; 1 pair; not bulging. Body laterally compressed, or subcylindrical; cuticle smooth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Antenna 1\i0{} shorter than antenna 2, or subequal to antenna 2, or longer than antenna 2; peduncle with sparse robust and slender setae; 3-articulate; peduncular article 1 shorter than article 2, or subequal to article 2, or longer than article 2; antenna 1 article 2 subequal to article 3, or longer than article 3; peduncular articles 1\endash{}2 not geniculate; accessory flagellum present, or absent; callynophore absent. \i{}Antenna 2\i0{} present; medium length, or long; articles not folded in zigzag fashion; without hook-like process; flagellum shorter than peduncle, or as long as peduncle; 5 or more articulate, or less than 5-articulate; not clavate; \i{}calceoli\i0{} absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Mouthparts\i0{} well developed. \b\i{}\i{}Mandible\i0{} incisor\i0\b0{} dentate; lacinia mobilis\i0\b0{} present on both sides; \b\i{}accessory setal row\i0\b0{} without distal tuft; \b\i{}molar\i0\b0{} present, medium, triturative; \b\i{}palp\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present\i0\b0{}. \i{}Maxilla 1\i0{} present; inner plate present, strongly setose along medial margin or weakly setose apically; palp present, not clavate, 2 -articulate. \i{}Maxilla 2\i0{} inner plate present; outer plate present. \i{}Maxilliped\i0{} inner and outer plates well developed or reduced, palps present, well developed or reduced; inner plates well developed, separate; outer plates present, small; palp 4-articulate, article 3 without rugosities. \b\i{}\i{}Labium\i0{}\i0\b0{} \b\i{}smooth\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Peraeon\b0{}. Peraeonites 1\endash{}7 separate; complete; sternal gills absent; pleurae absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Coxae 1\endash{}7\i0{} well developed, none fused with peraeonites. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}4\i0{} longer than broad or as long as broad or broader than long, overlapping, coxa 1 anteroventrally acuminate or coxae not acuminate. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}3\i0{} not successively smaller, none vestigial. \i{}Coxae 2\endash{}4\i0{} none immensely broadened.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Gnathopod 1\i0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; smaller (or weaker) than gnathopod 2, or subequal to gnathopod 2; smaller than coxa 2, or subequal to coxa 2, or larger than coxa 2; gnathopod 1 merus and carpus not rotated; carpus/propodus not cantilevered; carpus shorter than propodus, or subequal to propodus, or longer than propodus; not produced along posterior margin of propodus; dactylus large. \i{}Gnathopod 2\i0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; merochelate, or subchelate; coxa subequal to but not hidden by coxa 3; ischium short; merus not fused along posterior margin of carpus or produced away from it; carpus/propodus not cantilevered, carpus short or elongate, shorter than propodus or subequal to propodus or longer than propodus, strongly produced along posterior margin of propodus or slightly produced along posterior margin of propodus or not produced along posterior margin of propodus.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Peraeopods\i0{} heteropodous (3\endash{}4 directed posteriorly, 5\endash{}7 directed anteriorly) or heteropodous (3\endash{}5 directed posteriorly, 6\endash{}7 directed anteriorly), some or all prehensile or none prehensile; 3\endash{}4 with glandular basis, or 3\endash{}4 not glandular; 3\endash{}7 without hooded dactyli, 3\endash{}7 propodi without distal spurs. \i{}Peraeopod 3\i0{} well developed; coxa well developed, longer than broad or broader than long or as long as broad; carpus shorter than propodus, not produced; dactylus well developed. \i{}Peraeopod 4\i0{} well developed; coxa subequal to coxa 3, not acuminate, without posteroventral lobe; carpus not produced. \i{}Peraeopods 5\endash{}7\i0{} with few robust or slender setae; dactyli without slender or robust setae. \b\i{}\i{}Peraeopod 5\i0{}\i0\b0{} well developed; shorter than peraeopod 6; \b\i{}coxa\i0\b0{} \b\i{}larger than coxa 4\i0\b0{}, with posterodorsal lobe or without posterior lobe; basis expanded or slightly expanded, subrectangular or subovate, without posteroventral lobe; merus/carpus free; carpus weakly expanded, or linear; setae absent. \i{}Peraeopod 6\i0{} shorter than peraeopod 7, or subequal in length to peraeopod 7; merus/carpus free; dactylus without setae. \i{}Peraeopod 7\i0{} with 6\endash{}7 well developed articles; longer than peraeopod 5; similar in structure to peraeopod 6; with 7 articles; basis expanded or slightly expanded, without dense slender setae; dactylus without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Pleon\b0{}. Pleonites 1\endash{}3 without transverse dorsal serrations, without dorsal carina; without slender or robust dorsal setae. \i{}Epimera 1\endash{}3\i0{} present. \i{}Epimeron 1\i0{} well developed. \i{}Epimeron 2\i0{} setose, or without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b\i{}\i{}Urosome\i0{}\i0\b0{} \b\i{}not dorsoventrally flattened\i0\b0{}; urosomites 1 to 3 free, or 1 and 2 coalesced, 3 free, or 1 free, 2 and 3 coalesced; urosomite 1 subequal to urosomite 2, or longer than urosomite 2, or much longer than urosomite 2; urosome urosomites not carinate; urosomites 1\endash{}2 without transverse dorsal serrations. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}2\i0{} apices of rami with robust setae. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}3\i0{} similar in structure and size. \i{}Uropod 1\i0{} peduncle without long plumose setae, with 1 or 2 basofacial robust setae or without basofacial robust seta, with ventromedial spur or without ventromedial spur. \i{}Uropod 2\i0{} well developed; with ventromedial spur or without ventromedial spur, without dorsal flange; inner ramus subequal to outer ramus. \i{}Uropod 3\i0{} not sexually dimorphic; peduncle short or elongate; outer ramus shorter than peduncle or subequal to peduncle or longer than peduncle, 1-articulate or 2-articulate, without recurved spines. \b\i{}\i{}Telson\i0{}\i0\b0{} \b\i{}thickened dorsoventrally\i0\b0{}; entire; longer than broad, or as long as broad, or broader than long; apical robust setae present, or absent.
}
