{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{}{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2{}fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{}{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Paramelitidae Bousfield, 1977 \fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Description\b0{}. \b\i{}\b{}Head\b0{}\i0\b0{} free, not coalesced with peraeonite 1; exposed; as long as deep, or longer than deep, or deeper than long; anteroventral margin\i0\b0{} weakly recessed or moderately recessed, \b\i{}anteroventral margin\i0\b0{} \b\i{}deeply excavate\i0\b0{}, anteroventral corner rounded or subquadrate; rostrum present or absent, short; eyes present, well developed or obsolescent, or absent; not coalesced; 1 pair; not bulging. Body laterally compressed; cuticle smooth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Antenna 1\i0{} subequal to antenna 2, or longer than antenna 2; peduncle with sparse robust and slender setae; 3-articulate; peduncular article 1 subequal to article 2, or longer than article 2; antenna 1 article 2 longer than article 3; peduncular articles 1\endash{}2 not geniculate; accessory flagellum present; callynophore absent. \i{}Antenna 2\i0{} present; short, or medium length; articles not folded in zigzag fashion; without hook-like process; flagellum shorter than peduncle, or as long as peduncle; 5 or more articulate; not clavate; \i{}calceoli\i0{} present, or absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Mouthparts\i0{} well developed. \i{}Mandible\i0{} incisor dentate; lacinia mobilis present on both sides; accessory setal row without distal tuft; molar present, medium, triturative; palp present. \i{}Maxilla 1\i0{} present; inner plate present, strongly setose along medial margin or weakly setose apically; palp present, not clavate, 2 -articulate. \i{}Maxilla 2\i0{} inner plate present; outer plate present. \b\i{}\i{}Maxilliped\i0{}\i0\b0{} inner and outer plates well developed or reduced, palps present, well developed or reduced; \b\i{}inner plates\i0\b0{} well developed, separate; \b\i{}outer plates\i0\b0{} present, small; \b\i{}palp\i0\b0{} 4-articulate, \b\i{}article 3\i0\b0{} \b\i{}without rugosities\i0\b0{}. \i{}Labium\i0{} smooth.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Peraeon\b0{}. Peraeonites 1\endash{}7 separate; complete; sternal gills present or absent; pleurae absent.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Coxae 1\endash{}7\i0{} well developed, none fused with peraeonites. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}4\i0{} longer than broad or as long as broad or broader than long, overlapping, coxae not acuminate. \i{}Coxae 1\endash{}3\i0{} not successively smaller, none vestigial. \i{}Coxae 2\endash{}4\i0{} none immensely broadened.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Gnathopod 1\i0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; smaller (or weaker) than gnathopod 2, or subequal to gnathopod 2; smaller than coxa 2, or subequal to coxa 2; gnathopod 1 merus and carpus not rotated; carpus/propodus not cantilevered; carpus shorter than propodus, or subequal to propodus, or longer than propodus; slightly produced along posterior margin of propodus, or not produced along posterior margin of propodus; dactylus large. \i{}Gnathopod 2\i0{} sexually dimorphic, or not sexually dimorphic; subchelate; coxa smaller than but not hidden by coxa 3, or subequal to but not hidden by coxa 3; ischium short; merus not fused along posterior margin of carpus or produced away from it; carpus/propodus not cantilevered, carpus short or elongate, shorter than propodus or subequal to propodus or longer than propodus, slightly produced along posterior margin of propodus or not produced along posterior margin of propodus.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b\i{}\i{}Peraeopods\i0{}\i0\b0{} heteropodous (3\endash{}4 directed posteriorly, 5\endash{}7 directed anteriorly) or homopodous (3\endash{}7 directed posteriorly) (CHECK), some or all prehensile or none prehensile; \b\i{}3\endash{}4 not glandular\i0\b0{}; 3\endash{}7 without hooded dactyli, 3\endash{}7 propodi without distal spurs. \i{}Peraeopod 3\i0{} well developed; coxa well developed, longer than broad or broader than long; carpus shorter than propodus or subequal to propodus, not produced; dactylus well developed. \i{}Peraeopod 4\i0{} well developed; coxa smaller than coxa 3 or subequal to coxa 3 or larger than coxa 3, not acuminate, with well developed posteroventral lobe or with small posterior lobe or without posteroventral lobe; carpus not produced. \i{}Peraeopods 5\endash{}7\i0{} with few robust or slender setae; dactyli without slender or robust setae. \i{}Peraeopod 5\i0{} well developed; shorter than peraeopod 6; coxa smaller than coxa 4, with posterodorsal lobe or without posterior lobe; basis expanded or slightly expanded, subrectangular, with posteroventral lobe or without posteroventral lobe; merus/carpus free; carpus linear; setae present along margin or with a few subterminal setae. \i{}Peraeopod 6\i0{} shorter than peraeopod 7, or subequal in length to peraeopod 7, or longer than peraeopod 7; merus/carpus free; dactylus with setae along margin, or with a few subterminal setae. \i{}Peraeopod 7\i0{} with 6\endash{}7 well developed articles; subequal to peraeopod 5, or longer than peraeopod 5; similar in structure to peraeopod 6; with 7 articles; basis expanded or slightly expanded, without dense slender setae; dactylus with setae along margin or with a few subterminal setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Pleon\b0{}. \b\i{}Pleonites 1\endash{}3\i0\b0{} without transverse dorsal serrations, without dorsal carina; \b\i{}with slender or robust dorsal setae\i0\b0{}. \i{}Epimera 1\endash{}3\i0{} present. \i{}Epimeron 1\i0{} well developed. \i{}Epimeron 2\i0{} setose, or without setae.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\i{}Urosome\i0{} not dorsoventrally flattened; urosomites 1 to 3 free; urosomite 1 longer than urosomite 2; urosome urosomites not carinate; urosomites 1\endash{}2 without transverse dorsal serrations. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}2\i0{} apices of rami with robust setae. \i{}Uropods 1\endash{}3\i0{} similar in structure and size. \i{}Uropod 1\i0{} peduncle without long plumose setae, with 1 or 2 basofacial robust setae or without basofacial robust seta, without ventromedial spur. \i{}Uropod 2\i0{} well developed; without ventromedial spur, without dorsal flange; inner ramus subequal to outer ramus, or longer than outer ramus. \i{}Uropod 3\i0{} not sexually dimorphic; peduncle short; outer ramus shorter than peduncle or longer than peduncle, 1-articulate or 2-articulate, without recurved spines. \i{}Telson\i0{} laminar; deeply cleft, or moderately cleft, or entire; as long as broad, or broader than long; apical robust setae present.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Habitat.\b0{} freshwater.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}\b{}Remarks.\b0{} In the Paramelitidae only \i{}Giniphargus\i0{} and \i{}Chillagoe\i0{} have a uniramous uropod 3 and only \i{}Chillagoe\i0{} has a basofacial robust seta on the peduncle of uropod 1. \i{}Pilbarus\i0{} is the only paramelitid without sternal gills (how can it be a crangonyctoid??). The only difference between neoniphargids and paramelitids seems to be the presence of "rugosities" on the maxillipedal palp.
}
